# FogFormation

Question: How does the level of greenhouse gases and particulate matter in the atmosphere affect the levels of fog in Delhi?

These visual showcases 6 different factors which have been investigated to address the research problem of determining the fog levels in a region. All these 6 factors lead us to interesting conclusions. In order to understand the results, we must understand fog formation. In order for fog to form, dust or some kind of air pollution needs to be present in the air. Water vapor condenses around these microscopic solid particles, leading to fog formation. Depending on the temperature, fog can form very suddenly and then disappear just as quickly. A scientific method to use is to normalize the values to lie between 0 and 1, with 0 indicating a low value and 1 indicating a higher value, so as the comparisons become easier and the trends become observable. I have investigated particulates such as PM2.5, PM10, SO2, NO2, CO, and the mean temperature upon the fog levels every day over a period of 2 years from Jan 2015 – Jan 2017. From the first 2 visuals, it becomes quite evident that the beginning of every year sees a peak in the levels of PM2.5 and PM10, and these peaks lie in correlation with the fog levels as indicated by the bars. A similar trend can be observed for SO2 and NO2 as well. However, this is not the case for CO, as the graph shows no understandable correlations. This leads us to the conclusion that the larger diameter of the particles around which the water can condense (such as in PM2.5, PM10, SO2, NO2), the greater the fog formation. CO being a relatively smaller molecule has little to no contribution towards fog formation with no observable trends. Another conclusion from the visuals is that the lower the mean temperature for a day, the greater the formation of fog is. Every year, December and January are periods of winter during which there are greater levels of fog formation as mean temperatures are low lying at an average of 10 °C and as summer approaches, the level of fog also decreases as the mean temperature of a day rises which can be inferred from the graph, and this can be verified practically as well. Therefore one can summarize the results by saying, to maintain the natural water cycle, one must lower the levels of these pollutants in the atmosphere.
